# LAB 1
Angelica Ferlin, 2022<br />
<br />
[Link to instructions](https://github.com/squillero/computational-intelligence/blob/master/2022-23/lab1_set-covering.ipynb)

## Collaboration
I worked together with Karl Wennerström, Erik Bengtsson and Mathias Schmekel where we discussed the problem and possible solutions as well as collaborating on the code. I also collaborated with Leonor Gomes by discussing our results and exchanging ideas.

I also took inspiration from the solutions to different problems provided by professor Giovanni Squillero in the GitHub repository "computational-intelligence". Specifically, the solution called "8-puzzle.ipynb" and "4-friends.ipynb".

## Code
The code first sorts the list generated by the problem function by ordering the sublist from the least unique elements to the most unique elements compared to the current state. The current state contains all the elements of the previously added sublists. When a new sublist is sought the state space is sorted again with the same principle as the first time but takes into account if there are any duplicated numbers.

## Solution
The solution found by this search algorithm is displayed below where N is the input parameter for the search function, w is the total weight (number of elements in the final list) and visited nodes are all the nodes that the search algorithm visited before finding the minimal solution. 

### Result from running the search algorithm for N equal to 5, 10, 20, 100, 500 and 1000 with seed=42
INFO:root: Solution found for N=5: w=6: visited nodes=3: (bloat=20%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=10: w=13: visited nodes=3: (bloat=30%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=20: w=32: visited nodes=4: (bloat=60%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=100: w=189: visited nodes=5: (bloat=89%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=500: w=1375: visited nodes=7: (bloat=175%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3087: visited nodes=8: (bloat=209%)<br />

### Result from running the seach algorithm using: %timeit search(1_000)
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3042: visited nodes=8: (bloat=204%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3086: visited nodes=8: (bloat=209%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3055: visited nodes=8: (bloat=206%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3082: visited nodes=8: (bloat=208%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3114: visited nodes=8: (bloat=211%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3127: visited nodes=8: (bloat=213%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=2986: visited nodes=8: (bloat=199%)<br />
INFO:root: Solution found for N=1000: w=3405: visited nodes=9: (bloat=240%)<br />
2.08 s ± 450 ms per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1 loop each)


